feat: AI Proxy streaming (#7293)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_hub/kong-inc/ai-proxy/how-to/_sdk-usage.md

---
title: SDK Usage
nav_title: Using Programmatic SDKs with AI Proxy
---

You can use an OpenAI-compatible SDK with the AI Proxy plugin in multiple ways, depending on the required use case.

| You want to... | Then use... |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| Proxy an unsupported model, like Whisper-2. | [OpenAI-compatible SDK for unsupported models](#using-an-unsupported-model) |

> | etc | etc |

Author: @tysoekong I added a use case table here (similar to the one we have here: ) because I thought it might be helpful to users to https://docs.konghq.com/konnect/analytics/#analyze-api-usage-and-performance-data. I wasn't sure what the use cases were here, other than the unsupported model one makes sense to me. For example, what's a use case where someone would want to use multiple models on the same provider?

Reviewer: I've done this now

> ## Templated Model Parameters

Reviewer: It is yeah!

---
title: SDK Usage
nav_title: Use Programmatic SDKs with AI Proxy
minimum_version: 3.7.x
---

You can use an OpenAI-compatible SDK with the AI Proxy plugin in multiple ways, depending on the required use case.

| You want to...       | Then use...                   |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Allow the user to select their target model, based on some header or request parameter | [OpenAI SDK with multiple models on the same provider](#use-openai-sdk-with-multiple-models-on-the-same-provider) |
| Proxy the same request to an LLM provider of the user's choosing | [OpenAI SDK with multiple providers](#use-openai-sdk-with-multiple-providers) |
| Use the OpenAI SDK for Azure, and allow the user to choose the Azure Deployment ID | [Multiple Azure OpenAI deployments on one route](#multiple-azureopenai-deployments-on-one-route) |

> | Proxy an unsupported model, like Whisper-2. | [OpenAI-compatible SDK for unsupported models](#use-an-unsupported-model)               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Proxy an unsupported model, like Whisper-2 | [OpenAI-compatible SDK for unsupported models](#use-an-unsupported-model)               |
```
Removing the `.` for consistency with the other two entries

> ## Templated Model Parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Templated model parameters
```

> The plugin enables you to substitute values in the `config.model.name` and/or any `config.model.options.*` field,
> with specific placeholders, similar to those in the [Request Transformer Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/request-transformer-advanced/)
> templating system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The plugin enables you to substitute values in the `config.model.name` and any `config.model.options.*` field
with specific placeholders, similar to those in the [Request Transformer Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/request-transformer-advanced/)
templating system.
```
"and/or" is really just "and".

> The available templated parameters are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Available templated parameters:
```
Personal preference. Feel free to ignore this one if you don't like it.

* `$(headers.name)`
* `$(uri_captures.name)`
* `$(query_params.name)`

`name` is either the header name, URI named capture (in the route path), or the query parameter name, respectively.

## Use case examples
### Use OpenAI SDK with multiple models on the same provider

To read the desired model from the user, rather than hard coding it into the plugin config for each route,

> you can read it from a path parameter, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can read it from a path parameter. For example:
```

```yaml
- name: openai-chat
  paths:
  - "~/(?<model>[^#?/]+)/chat/completions$"
  methods:
  - POST
  plugins:
  - name: ai-proxy
    config:
      route_type: "llm/v1/chat"
      auth:
        header_name: "Authorization"
        header_value: "{vault://env/OPENAI_AUTH_HEADER}"
      logging:
        log_statistics: true
        log_payloads: false
      model:
        provider: "openai"
        name: "$(uri_captures.model)"
```

You can now target two different models using an OpenAI-compatible SDK:

```python
client = OpenAI(
  base_url="http://localhost:8000/gpt-4"
)
```

> The Python SDK (in OpenAI standard mode) will fill in the URL with `http://localhost:8000/gpt-4/chat/completions`. {{site.base_gateway}} recognizes the model as "gpt-4" and the route appropriately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Python SDK (in OpenAI standard mode) fills in the URL with `http://localhost:8000/gpt-4/chat/completions`. {{site.base_gateway}} recognizes the model as gpt-4 and the route appropriately.
```
What does "and the route appropriately" mean?

### Using OpenAI SDK with multiple providers

> To use the same OpenAI SDK but with multiple LLM providers, Kong AI Proxy can arbitrate this for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kong AI Proxy can help you arbitrate using the same OpenAI SDK with multiple LLM providers.
```
Something like this? I don't love the word arbitrate here, but I'm going to assume it's helpful in a technical sense.

> Set up two routes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, set up two routes:
```

```yaml
- name: cohere-chat
  paths:
  - "~/cohere/(?<model>[^#?/]+)/chat/completions$"
  methods:
  - POST
  plugins:
  - name: ai-proxy
    config:
      route_type: "llm/v1/chat"
      auth:
        header_name: "Authorization"
        header_value: "{vault://env/COHERE_AUTH_HEADER}"
      logging:
        log_statistics: true
        log_payloads: false
      model:
        provider: "cohere"
        name: "$(uri_captures.model)"

- name: mistral-chat
  paths:
  - "~/mistral(?<model>[^#?/]+)/chat/completions$"
  methods:
  - POST
  plugins:
  - name: ai-proxy
    config:
      route_type: "llm/v1/chat"
      auth:
        header_name: "Authorization"
        header_value: "{vault://env/MISTRAL_AUTH_HEADER}"
      logging:
        log_statistics: true
        log_payloads: false
      model:
        provider: "mistral"
        name: "$(uri_captures.model)"
```

> Now, the user can select their desired provider using the SDK:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, you can select your desired provider using the SDK:
```
Not sure why it suddenly switched from "you" to "the user".

With AI Proxy, you can create two routes to point to two different deployments of an
Azure OpenAI model:

```yaml
- name: azure-chat-gpt-3-5
  paths:
  - "~/openai/deployments/azure-gpt-3-5/chat/completions$"
  methods:
  - POST
  plugins:
  - name: ai-proxy
    config:
      route_type: "llm/v1/chat"
      auth:
        header_name: "api-key"
        header_value: "{vault://env/AZURE_AUTH_HEADER}"
      logging:
        log_statistics: true
        log_payloads: false
      model:
        provider: "azure"
        name: "gpt-35-turbo"
        options:
          azure_instance: "my-openai-instace"
          azure_deployment_id: "my-gpt-3-5"

- name: azure-chat-gpt-4
  paths:
  - "~/openai/deployments/azure-gpt-4/chat/completions$"
  methods:
  - POST
  plugins:
  - name: ai-proxy
    config:
      route_type: "llm/v1/chat"
      auth:
        header_name: "api-key"
        header_value: "{vault://env/AZURE_AUTH_HEADER}"
      logging:
        log_statistics: true
        log_payloads: false
      model:
        provider: "azure"
        name: "gpt-4"
        options:
          azure_instance: "my-openai-instace"
          azure_deployment_id: "my-gpt-4"
```

> But if you are required to only use one route to proxy multiple models deployed in the same instance, you can use request parameters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have to use only one route to proxy multiple models deployed in the same instance, you can use request parameters:
```

```yaml
- name: azure-chat
  paths:
  - "~/openai/deployments/(?<azure_instance>[^#?/]+)/chat/completions"
  methods:
  - POST
  plugins:
  - name: ai-proxy
    config:
      route_type: "llm/v1/chat"
      auth:
        header_name: "api-key"
        header_value: "{vault://env/AZURE_AUTH_HEADER}"
      logging:
        log_statistics: true
        log_payloads: false
      model:
        provider: "azure"
        name: "$(uri_captures.azure_instance)"
        options:
          azure_instance: "my-openai-instace"
          azure_deployment_id: "$(uri_captures.azure_instance)"
```

> Now the user can set the SDK endpoint to `http://localhost:8000/azure`. When the Azure instance parameter is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you can set the SDK endpoint to `http://localhost:8000/azure`. When the Azure instance parameter is
```

> set to `"my-gpt-3-5"`, the Python SDK produces the URL (`http://localhost:8000/openai/deployments/my-gpt-3-5/chat/completions`) and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
set to `"my-gpt-3-5"`, the Python SDK produces the URL `http://localhost:8000/openai/deployments/my-gpt-3-5/chat/completions` and
```

is directed to the respective Azure deployment ID and model.

### Use an unsupported model

> {{site.base_gateway}} can perform a **best-effort** to support models that are not programmed with to/from format transformers or are untested.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{site.base_gateway}} can perform a **best-effort** to support models that are not programmed with to/from format transformers, or are untested.
```

> These will be unsupported use-cases, but may work depending on your setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

{:.important}
> **Caution**: The following use cases are unsupported, but may work depending on your setup.
> Use at your own discretion.
```

Let's do something like this to draw attention to the lack of support.

> For these, you must use the `preserve` "route_type" mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the following examples, you must set the `route_type` to `preserve` mode.
```

For example, you could use the Whisper-2 audio transcription model with a route:

```yaml
- name: openai-any
  paths:
  - "~/openai/(?<op_path>[^#?]+)"
  methods:
  - POST
  plugins:
  - name: ai-proxy
    config:
      route_type: "preserve"
      auth:
        header_name: "Authorization"
        header_value: "{vault://env/OPENAI_AUTH_HEADER}"
      logging:
        log_statistics: true
        log_payloads: false
      model:
        name: "whisper-2"
        provider: "openai"
        options:
          upstream_path: "$(uri_captures.op_path)"
```

> Now you can `POST` a file (multi-part form) for transcription:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you can `POST` a file for transcription, using `multipart/form-data` formatting:
```
